The [a]Maid [b]And Her [c]Prince[d]


The young prince sat in his room. He stood up, paced around, sat back down. It was night, and the glass of the window was a mirror, reflecting his room and the flickering light of the candle-lit lamps back at him. He was thirteen, restless, and had just started his adolescence. As such, his desire to sleep with a girl was the only thing on his mind at night. He was feeling it especially tonight and jumped to his feet again. He wobbled over to the door as fast as his chubby legs could carry him and threw it open.
        “Mr. Becker!” the prince called into the stone hallway, his voice echoing.
        It didn’t take long before the middle-aged man came running. “You called, Your Highness?”
        “Get me one of the maids.”
        “Er, is there a particular maid you have in mind, Your Highness?”
        “One that’s around my age. And pretty.”
        “Yes, Your Highness.”
        The prince returned to his room, pacing a few more times before sitting down on his bed, winded. Shortly, there was a knock on the door. It opened, and a girl stepped into the room. She looked petrified as the door swung closed behind her.
        “Come here,” the prince said eagerly.
        The girl didn’t move. Instead, she burst into tears.
        The prince stared at her in surprise, completely taken aback. “D-don’t cry. What’s wrong?” She looked so small standing there that he suddenly felt embarrassed.
        The girl just kept sobbing. “I don’t want to sleep with you. I’m young and beautiful, and you’re fat and ugly.”
        The prince opened his mouth, but he closed it again when no words came out. “Well, I don’t want to sleep with you anymore,” he shot back sourly. “You’re not even that pretty. You can go.”
        “Mr. Becker said he’d collect me in the morning,” the maid sniffled as she wiped at her tear-streaked face. I can’t leave on my own—it’s past curfew.”
        “Fine,” the prince said crossly. “Stay here, then. But you sleep over there.” He pointed to the alcove in front of the window. “I’ll find a blanket for you.”
        The girl remained by the door, and the prince could feel her eyes watching him as he marched over to the closet and dug through it until he found a blanket. Once the prince had moved away from the alcove, the girl cautiously made her way over to it and took a seat. She drew her knees to her chest, her eyes never leaving the prince for an instant.
        Trying his best to ignore her persistent stare, the prince sat down at his desk and pulled the stack of books toward him. His mood spoiled, he might as well do some homework. He couldn’t have spent more than five minutes reading before he opened one of the drawers and took out the biscuits he had smuggled from dinner. He lifted one to his mouth, but then he paused. The girl was still watching him, and he set the biscuit back down. “Are you hungry? You can have them.”
        “Really?” the girl asked hopefully.
        “I’m fat already,” the prince said in annoyance. “I don’t need them.”
        The girl hesitantly slid down from the alcove and scurried over to snatch them off the table. Returning to the alcove just as quickly, she continued to watch the prince as she nibbled away at the biscuits.
        After a while, the prince looked up from his books again. “Hey, what’s your name?”
        The girl blinked before slowly sitting up a little straighter. “Ivanna.”


Ten Years Later


        The maid opened her eyes from where she was sleeping in the alcove, squinting at the sunlight spilling in through the window. Her long brown hair spilled over the wood, and she brushed it out of her face as she sat up. After sitting in silence for a moment, she glanced over at the handsome young man behind the desk across the room. His curly red hair seemed to glow in the light, and he smiled. “Good morning.”
        The maid smiled back. “Good morning, Your Highness.” She stood up and got to work folding the blanket she had been using into a neat square before setting it down on top of the pillow. “I’ll put these back in the closet for tonight.”
        The prince nodded. “That’s right, there’s going to be another ball.”
        “Shall I clean the room?”
        The prince smiled faintly. “What is there to clean? We already dusted everything yesterday, remember? I’ll clean up again after tonight. Don’t worry about it.”
        The maid nodded. She gazed out the window as she tied her hair up. Then she turned to look at the prince again. “Roland . . .”
        Roland looked up. “Ivanna?”
        Ivanna sighed softly as she looked away. “I dreamed about our first meeting last night.”
        Roland let out a laugh. “I’ll apologize to you for seeing that old me, then.”
        “I know you like to laugh whenever you talk about him, but he’s not all that bad,” Ivanna pointed out. “He might have been a little immature, but he was also kind.”
        “And chubby,” Roland added.
        Ivanna gave him an exasperated smile at that. “If you don’t need any help here, I’ll head back down to the maid’s quarters. We’ll be setting up for the ball, after all. I’ll be back tomorrow morning.”


~


        That evening, Ivanna quietly watched Roland from afar. The prince stood against the wall of the ballroom with a glass of wine in hand. The other princes were already mingling with the crowd; their curly red hair made them easy to spot. Roland swirled the wine in his cup as his gaze swept over the guests. Ivanna followed his gaze. He was looking at a young woman with blonde hair. He tipped his wine glass to her, and after setting his glass down, Roland made his way to the doors. The young woman followed. She extended her slender hand to Roland.
        Ivanna sighed softly, making her way across the ballroom to collect the prince’s discarded glass. She picked it up to set on her tray, but then blinked. A golden ring set with a deep blue gem glittered back at her. She recognized it instantly as Roland’s. Ivanna looked around to see Roland and the blonde noblewoman vanish out the door of the ballroom. If she hurried, maybe she could return it to him. If she got caught with royal jewelry in her possession, punishment was inevitable.
        Ivanna swiftly made her way out of the ballroom, but by the time she made it to the prince’s chambers, the door was already closed. Ivanna slumped, looking down at the ring glittering in her hand. Debating what to do now, she was about to leave when the sound of voices floated over to her from inside the room. Against her better judgment, Ivanna inched closer to listen.
        “I’ve heard a few things about you, Prince Roland,” the young woman was saying.
        “What have you heard about me?” Roland’s voice replied.
        “I’ve heard that Prince Roland sleeps with a different woman each ball. Multiple women at times.”
        “That’s not completely wrong. I’ve slept with men, too. I hope that isn’t a deal breaker for you.”
        The noblewoman just let out an amused laugh. “And I’ve slept with women before. I hope that isn’t a deal breaker for you either.”
        “Of course not. I don’t think I’ve seen you before at previous balls.”
        “I’ve only come a couple of times before. Most of the year, I’m at my all-girls school. Women are genuinely better kissers. But I’ve been excited ever since I got here.”
        There was silence for a few moments, then Roland’s voice sounded again. “You’re beautiful.”
        “And you’re quite dashing yourself.”
        “Can I touch you?” Roland’s voice was husky.
        The noblewoman let out a gasp of delight. “Your Highness—”
        “Please call me Roland.”
        “Roland.”
        As Ivanna stood there, listening to the soft gasps of pleasure, she felt something she hadn’t felt before. There was a dampness between her legs. There was an itch there, too. Making sure she was completely alone in the stone corridor, Ivanna slipped a hand under her skirts.
        When the two inside the bedroom were done, there was quiet for a long period of time before Roland spoke up again. “Care for one last glass?”
        “So,” the noblewoman said softly, “you’re the ninth of thirteen sons?”
        Roland’s laugh was dry. “That’s correct. You probably already know that I’ve been dubbed the useless one, too. I don’t care about the fight for the throne going on among my older brothers. I have no knowledge of how to navigate a battlefield, either, so I certainly won’t be earning military merit. I just spend my days sleeping around.”
        “That’s not all that bad either,” the noblewoman replied lightly.
        “You’re right. It’s a good time.” Then Roland was quiet for a moment. “Do you need to head back downstairs?”
        “I’ll stay here with you a little longer.”


~


        That night in the maid’s quarters, Ivanna found herself lying awake in bed. She had stashed Roland’s ring under her pillow for the time being, and she was subtly aware of its shape pressing against the back of her head.
        Thinking back to Roland, Ivanna flushed again. The restlessness between her legs returned. She squeezed her eyes shut, trying to ignore it. But when the urge finally became too strong to resist, Ivanna sat up in bed and slipped out of the room. She hurried down the stone corridors on the way to the washrooms, but she paused for a moment, doubling back as she passed the closed door of a storage closet. At this time of night, the closet would offer more privacy than the public washrooms.
        Ivanna quietly opened the door, closing it behind her just as softly. Now alone in the room, she squeezed her legs together. She was already so damp. Moving a basket of sewing supplies off one of the wooden tables, Ivanna lay down on her back. She arched and shivered, panting softly as she rubbed at herself desperately. She could feel a pounding in her core, but as she ran a slick finger over her opening, she paused. What was she doing? Even though her mind was still clouded in pleasure, the memory of pain was ever-present in the back of her mind. 
Still breathing quicker than normal, Ivanna sat back up and straightened her skirts. Her legs dangled off the table as she sat there quietly. Why did it have to be him?


~


        Ivanna knocked on the door a few times before Roland finally answered. “Come in.”
        Ivanna pushed the door open. Today, there was a faint scent of vanilla lingering in the air. After carefully closing it behind her, Ivanna looked around the room a few times before spotting Roland lying on his bed with an empty wine glass in hand.
        Ivanna sighed as she walked over to him. “Your Highness, it’s already morning, and yet you’re still drinking?” She pried the glass from Roland’s limp hand and set it aside.
        She frowned slightly, hesitating for a moment before she reached out a hand to feel his forehead. He did look a little feverish. . . But suddenly, Roland grabbed her wrist, pulling her forward. Ivanna let out a startled sound as she tumbled onto his chest.
        “Roland,” Ivanna said tiredly, even though her heart beat a little quicker, “it’s me, Ivanna.”
        Roland blinked. There was a haze clouding his brown eyes. “Ivanna?”
        Ivanna nodded as she gazed at his face. Her own face heated.
        Roland slowly released his grasp on her wrist.
        Ivanna climbed off Roland before helping him sit up. “Are you alright?”
        Roland clutched his head. “I’m fine. Just hung over.”
        The vanilla scent clung to the bedsheets, and Ivanna could smell it on Roland as well. “Did you enjoy yourself last night?”
        Roland nodded.
        “What did she look like?” Ivanna asked coyly.
        “She was very pretty. Slim with long blonde hair.”
        “Prettier than me?”
        Roland let out a laugh as he looked at Ivanna. “Of course.”
        Ivanna wrinkled her nose. “You still smell like her, too. I’ll help you strip the bed.” Ivanna made to stand up, but Roland caught her wrist again.
        “You know you’re the one I have feelings for,” Roland said softly.
        Ivanna nodded silently, stilling. “I—I know. But you also know I can’t satisfy you in the way the others can.”
        “That doesn’t matter, Ivanna—”
        “It matters to me.” Ivanna gently pried off Roland’s hand. “It’s for the best if we continue to keep within our boundaries. Oh, and you forgot this last night in the ballroom.” Ivanna took Roland’s hand and placed his ring in his palm before turning away. There were reasons she could never cross that line.
Shortly after Ivanna had met Roland, she had been unfortunate enough to catch the eye of the third prince, Asher. Ivanna had been thirteen at the time. And the prince, who was five years older than her, was aggressive. Ivanna had been left traumatized from the event and unable to speak for weeks after, from how he had mercilessly strangled her. She could still remember how the ceiling blurred and waved in and out of focus as she struggled to breathe.
        Now, Roland helped Ivanna remove the blankets and fold them into a pile to take downstairs to be washed. Ivanna walked to the side of the room, stood on her tiptoes, and grabbed the feather duster on top of the closet. After dusting around the room, she went to dust off the curtains as well.
        “Ivanna.” It was Roland.
        Ivanna turned around, taking a breath. She smiled. “Were you up all night being depressed?”
        “Depressed?”
        “Why else would you be drinking in the morning? Were you sad the pretty girl had to leave?”
        “Why should I be sad? I have another pretty girl with me now, don’t I?” Ivanna hid her laughter as Roland playfully poked her in the forehead. Even though she was laughing, there was something tight in her chest today.
        Ivanna looked out the window at the sunlit world beyond, slightly pink in the face. Was this . . . jealousy?
        “Ivanna,” Roland said after a moment. “Have you been too busy running around planning for the ball? Would you like to take a bath?”
        Ivanna blinked, caught off guard by his words. “I—what?” She turned around to face him. “Are you saying I smell?”
        Roland was smiling faintly. “Do you want to or not?”
        “I’ll take you up on that,” Ivanna said quickly. “Thank you.”
        Before long, Ivanna was sitting alone in the wooden tub in Roland’s bathing room. The stone room was bright and illuminated by the sunlight spilling in through the stained-glass windows, and the embroidered screens added to the relaxing atmosphere.
        Ivanna hugged her legs to her chest as she sat in the warm water. After the previous night, she had noticed a different scent clinging to her. Had Roland noticed? Ivanna pressed her hands to her face. She still felt warm just thinking about him.
        Ivanna sighed as she slumped down in the water. Her hair floated around her. She could still remember her bath the night after being forced by Prince Asher. Unable to speak, Ivanna had stumbled to the maid’s washroom alone in the middle of the night. Shaking all over, she had stripped out of her dress and dumped bucket after bucket of icy water over herself. Even in the low light, she could see her blood on the floor, mixed with something else. Ivanna had sat there, sobbing and shivering as she tried again and again to clean herself. She had never felt dirtier.
        Ivanna took a breath, plunging her head underwater to break her train of thought. When she resurfaced, her hair was plastered to the sides of her face, and she brushed it away. Since that day, she had hidden from the older prince in Roland’s chambers. But even long after she was sure the prince had forgotten about her, she kept coming back. Ivanna looked over at the closed door to the washroom. Roland was somewhere in the room beyond, his presence warm and a rare comfort.


~


        That night, Ivanna sat nestled on the windowsill with a book in hand. She had finished her chores for the day, and it was a sweet relief to finally be off her feet. The cool glass reflected her face back at her, and she absently ran her fingers through her long hair. She could see Roland reflected in the glass as well. The prince was sitting at his desk with a glass of wine in one hand and a feather quill in the other. Ivanna watched him quietly. She had been thinking about Roland’s words from this morning.
        Ivanna carefully set down her book before standing up and walking over to stand in front of Roland’s desk. Roland smiled as he looked up at her from his seat. “Have something on your mind? Or do you just want a drink?”
        Ivanna shuffled her feet. “You guessed it.”
        Roland laughed as he went to fetch another glass. “I have a good bottle I haven’t opened yet. I was saving it for you.”
        He returned to his desk with the wine and poured Ivanna a glass of the purple-red liquid.
        Ivanna smiled gratefully as she picked it up.
        Roland lifted his glass. “Cheers.”
        After her third glass, Ivanna could tell her face was flushed. She knew she should stop, but she secretly relished how the wine seemed to take her worries away with it. Finally setting her glass down, she staggered slightly as she made to walk back over to the window.
        Roland was there to steady her, and Ivanna looked up at him. There he was again, always by her side when she needed him the most. “I have something to tell you.”
        “What is it?”
        “I like you,” Ivanna said breathlessly.
        Roland just smiled. “I know. Why else would you stay here and become my personal maid?”
        Ivanna shook her head. “I’m serious. I really, really like you.” Then she let out a sob. “But it can never work between us because I’m a maid and you’re, well, you’re you.”
        Roland sighed as he sat Ivanna down on the windowsill. He reached over to brush Ivanna’s hair away from her face and followed by pressing a hand against her forehead. “You’re a little warm.”
        Ivanna just watched Roland’s face in silence for a moment. “I want to kiss you.”
        Roland smiled wryly. “Alright.”
        Ivanna leaned forward, already breathless. Roland met her in a kiss. Ivanna wrapped her arms around his neck as Roland’s hands went to her hair.
        When they drew apart, Ivanna’s heart was pounding in her chest. Roland’s own face had flushed slightly as he smiled at her. “Happy?”
        Ivanna’s breathing was still quick as she nodded. “I want more.”
        Roland raised a brow. “More?”
        Ivanna nodded as she searched his eyes. “I want to give myself to you. I want to be yours.”
        Something flickered behind Roland’s eyes, and he was silent for a moment before he spoke again. “You’re drunk, aren’t you.”
        “I’m serious,” Ivanna countered.
        Roland pulled away this time. He averted his gaze. “We can revisit this topic when you’re sober.”
        “But . . .”
        “No buts. If you want to stay here with me, we’ll play chess.”
        Ivanna wrinkled her nose at that but nodded. “If you say we’ll play chess, then we’ll play chess!”


~


        Ivanna woke to a pounding headache the following morning. She squinted against the bright light coming in through the window to find Roland at his desk as always. Even as a prince of a kingdom, his world was so small, ending at the door to the stone corridor beyond his room.
        “Hungry?” Roland asked as Ivanna slowly sat up.
        Ivanna shook her head, wincing as the movement only intensified her headache. “I didn’t say anything strange or do anything weird last night, did I?”
        Roland paused to think about it for a moment before smiling. “You told me that you liked me and that you wanted to give yourself to me.”
        Ivanna stared as memories of the previous night came back to her. She remembered kissing Roland, and then . . . “We didn’t, did we?”
        “I told you that we can revisit the topic again when you’re sober,” Roland replied mildly. “I have to meet my tutor soon. You’re welcome to stay here alone in my chambers, but I don’t have any food, so you’ll have to go down to the kitchens yourself.”
        “I’ll go get something to eat now,” Ivanna mumbled as she stood up. After slipping out the door, she absently walked along, making her way toward the kitchens, when she suddenly became aware of a pair of eyes watching her.
        Ivanna stiffened as she came to a stop, slowly pivoting on the spot to find herself face to face with a young man with red hair.
        “It’s been years since we last met,” Prince Asher said. “You’ve grown prettier.”
        Ivanna’s lungs seemed to tighten as she tried to fight against her panic. She curtsied, reminding herself to breathe. “Your Highness.”
        “I’ve heard you're my brother’s favorite plaything now,” Asher continued. “If I asked nicely, do you think my brother would let me spend time with you?”
        Ivanna didn’t know how to answer or know if she could answer at all, for that matter, so she remained silent.
        Asher watched Ivanna for a few more moments before turning and continuing on his way. Once he was out of sight, Ivanna hurried as fast as she could in the opposite direction. Her head was spinning. Just seeing the prince sent her into a state of helplessness and despair.


~


        For the next few nights, Ivanna found herself having trouble falling and staying asleep. Curled up in the alcove, Ivanna silently pushed the curtains aside to look at her frightened reflection in the glass. She had jolted awake in a cold sweat again to another nightmare. She could still remember lying there, wishing with everything she had to leave her body far behind. She had struggled for her life at first, but when her struggling only made the strangling worse, Ivanna had finally gone still and instead squeezed her eyes shut, waiting for everything to end.
        Ivanna slowly sat up, taking another breath to steady herself. Through the dark, she looked over in the direction of Roland’s bed and where the red-haired prince was fast asleep. Ivanna rose to her feet, slipping over to the washroom to splash her face with icy water.
        When she returned to the alcove, she blinked as a candle flickered to life. “I’m sorry,” Ivanna whispered as Roland set the little candle inside the glass lantern. “Did I wake you?”
Roland shook his head. “It’s alright. Can’t sleep?”
“I’m having a little trouble,” Ivanna admitted.
Roland walked over to stand in front of Ivanna. He offered a hand to her, and Ivanna hesitantly placed her hand in his, surprised.
Roland gently rubbed circles along the lines of Ivanna’s palm. “Remember when I was a teen? Whenever I was too stressed to sleep, you would stand behind my chair, massaging my temples.”
Roland’s fingers were warm, and Ivanna felt something inside her seem to stir again. But she dropped her gaze, withdrawing her hand. “I’m afraid this is improper, Your Highness.”
Something flickered behind Roland’s eyes as he finally nodded. “You know I don’t see it this way, Ivanna.”
Ivanna looked up to hold his gaze. “Roland, you’re a prince. I’m nobody.”
Roland took a breath before nodding again. “I know.” There was quiet between them for a moment before Roland picked up the lantern again. “Morning is still hours away. Let’s try to get some sleep.”
Ivanna curled up again under her blankets, watching in the glass as Roland climbed back into bed, and the room flickered into darkness as he blew out the candle.


~


        Later in the week, Ivanna came to Roland’s chambers in the morning to find him lying in bed with a glass of wine in hand, the way he would always be after a ball. Ivanna sighed as she shut the door behind her and walked over to take the glass from Roland. “If you’re having such a good time, why do I always find you like this in the morning?” she said by way of greeting.
        “The young noblewoman last night,” Roland started, still staring at the ceiling. “She reminded me of you. She told me it was her first time, and I asked if she was sure she wanted her first time to be with someone who wasn’t even interested in her romantically.”
        Ivanna raised a brow. “And what did she say?”
        “She said she still wanted to.”
        “And how did you respond?”
        “Well, and then I just tried to make the experience as enjoyable for her as possible.”
        Ivanna made to walk away, but Roland caught her wrist. His eyes were serious. “I heard Asher found you. No wonder you’ve been having nightmares recently. Are you alright?”
        “I’m okay,” Ivanna said quietly. “Just a little shocked. After avoiding him for all these years, his entire attitude is completely different. But what I hate about him that most still hasn’t changed.”
        This time, Ivanna walked over to place a hand against the window. For the longest time, her encounter with Asher had made her afraid of intimacy. It had made her afraid of desire. She thought he had broken her completely, but since the night she lingered outside Roland’s door, that had changed.


~


        There was another ball that night, and Ivanna spent the night in the maid’s quarters. Roland had offered that if she was worried about Asher finding her, she could stay in his chambers while Roland himself would find an empty guestroom to bring his guest. Ivanna had smiled but declined the offer. Since that last meeting with Asher in the stone corridor, Ivanna hadn’t seen or heard from the prince again.
        In the morning, Ivanna wrinkled her nose when she entered Roland’s chambers. Instead of being sprawled on the bed with a wine glass in hand like usual, Roland hung partly off the bed, his clothes stained purple-red as he drank from the bottle.
        “Your Highness,” Ivanna scolded as she hurried over to take the bottle from him before he could spill even more of it over himself. She finally managed to pry the bottle from his hands and set it aside. “Why do you do this?”
        Roland looked up at her. “It’s a good time.”
        “There’s more to it than that.”
        Roland sighed, this time straightening to run a hand through his red hair. “You’re right. You’re the only one I have in here, okay? I’m lonely, alright?” He looked away for a moment. “It’s easier to be with someone when you already know it can’t mean anything.” Finally, Roland pointed with a shaky finger to the window. “I’d rather be out there, but I’ve been stuck in here for as long as I can remember.”
        “Don’t tell me you’re insecure too?”
        Roland sighed again. “And I’m a little insecure too.”
        “Did last night not go as well?” Ivanna asked hesitantly, looking again at the wine stains.
        Roland shook his head. “It went well. That’s why I hate how it had to end. I was with a servant last night. It’s been a while since anyone has made my heart skip a beat. But in the end, he told me it would be impossible for us. That it was for the best if we didn’t meet again.” Roland let out a humorless laugh. “I don’t know what to do.”
        “Let’s get you cleaned up first,” Ivanna said softly.
        “We talked late into the night,” Roland continued as Ivanna helped him stumble toward the washroom. “We just talked about life. But I could tell he felt he needed to be careful of his every word and every action around me. It was something so fragile. I’ve been with so many people over the years that I can tell when the wanting is mutual. But in the end, neither of us acted on it. Maybe it was for the best.”
        Ivanna sighed. “If this is the state you end up in even without intimacy, I’m worried how you would have been if you did.”
        In the washroom, Ivanna poured the buckets of hot water into the wooden tub. Once it was full, she returned to Roland and started undoing the clasps and buttons on his shirt, but the prince put a gentle hand on her wrist to stop her.
        He offered her a small smile. “Thank you. I can take it from here.”
        Ivanna nodded silently.
        After leaving Roland alone in the washroom, Ivanna returned to the alcove, turning her head to look out the window. She could see the hills and lakes in the distance. There were houses made out of wood and stone sprinkled there, but their individual shapes were too tiny to make out.
        Like Roland, Ivanna had been born and raised within the cold stone walls of the castle. Her parents had been servants too, or so she had been told. Ivanna had no memories of her parents, and when she had mustered the courage once to ask about them, the head maid had told her that they had passed a workable age and had long been sent out of the castle.
        Maybe it was better not to have parents, Ivanna thought. Roland’s parents, the current king and queen, both sent shivers running down Ivanna’s spine when she was in their presence. There was something cold and calculating behind their eyes. At balls, even while the two monarchs sat next to each other at the front of the room, it was painfully obvious they loathed each other to the bone despite their efforts to mask it with fake smiles.
        As Ivanna continued to gaze out the window, another thought occurred to her. Even though she had followed Roland for all these years, she hadn’t actually seen him without clothes before. Ivanna quickly shook her head, guilty that such a thought had crossed her mind. But even so, she turned her gaze in the direction of the washroom.
        That day, Roland remained on Ivanna’s mind as she went around the castle, sweeping and polishing. She was so distracted she almost didn’t notice the red-haired prince in front of her until they were practically face-to-face. Ivanna tensed, panicked that Asher was back, but the one she faced this time was the crown prince.
        Ivanna dropped into a curtsy. “Your Highness. Forgive me for not acknowledging you sooner.”
        “You’re the maid my younger brother favors?” the crown prince asked, his eyes moving over Ivanna in a way that had her tensing even more. “One of my other brothers was telling me about what a beauty she is. No wonder my younger brother keeps you for himself. Do you entertain him during the day while he finds ball guests to entertain at night?”
        Ivanna just kept her head bowed, not trusting herself to speak. She had the urge to defend Roland, but in the presence of the crown prince, she held her tongue.
        That night, Ivanna told Roland about her encounter with the crown prince.
        Roland sighed heavily. “Unfortunately, nowhere in the castle is safe. Now that you’ve caught the attention of two of my brothers, you can’t just wander about anymore. I’ll think of a way to send you out of the castle.”
        “No,” Ivanna said a little too quickly. She averted her gaze. “What I mean is I can’t just leave you here alone.”
        Roland took a seat next to Ivanna on the alcove, gently pulling her into a warm embrace. Ivanna rested her head on his shoulder as she held him tightly. “Are you sure you want to stay?” Roland asked softly. “Even if one of us can escape, it’s worth it.”
        Ivanna pulled back to look at Roland. She could almost hear her heart beating in the silence between them. Her gaze lingered on his lips, and she leaned forward. The kiss was brief before she drew away, searching Roland’s eyes. Ivanna took a breath. “I don’t want to leave you. We either stay here together, or we leave together.”
        Roland leaned forward, and Ivanna’s eyes fluttered shut as his lips met hers. Roland’s fingers were in her hair, and she let out a soft gasp, breathless as they finally parted. Her forehead rested against Roland’s as her heart raced in her chest. There was something else beating within her, and she wrapped her arms around Roland again, drawing him close.
        Soon, Ivanna had her arms around Roland’s shoulders as he carried her from the alcove to his bed. He had just laid her down gently when Ivanna paused. “Wait,” she said softly.
        Roland paused, sitting down next to her as he patiently waited for her to continue.
        Even though her pulse was still much quicker than normal, Ivanna dropped her gaze. “I . . . I’m sorry. I don’t think I’m ready yet.”
        “Okay.” Ivanna slowly lifted her gaze again. Roland didn’t seem angry.
        “I’m sorry,” Ivanna said again.
        Roland just smiled faintly. “Don’t be. This was already plenty of fun, and I don’t want to have you do anything you don’t want to.”
        “I do want to, though. It’s just . . .” she didn’t know the best way to put it as she fumbled with her words. “I don’t think I’m ready to have something inside me.”
        “If you still want to keep going, we don’t have to do that,” Roland said after a pause.
        “What do you mean?”
        Roland placed a light hand on Ivanna’s thigh, looking at her as he waited for her permission to go further.
        Ivanna watched him carefully for a moment. “I . . . I didn’t make any preparations or anything before.”
Roland’s gentle smile didn’t change. “I’m okay with it if you’re okay with it. Over the years, I’ve seen everything there is to see. You don’t have to change anything for me. I just want what you’re comfortable with.”
Feeling a little more confident again, Ivanna nodded. Roland’s hand slipped under the hem of her dress, trailing up her inner thigh. Ivanna shuddered in anticipation as Roland traced light circles over her skin, slowly moving upward between her legs where the warm restlessness was becoming too strong to ignore.
        Ivanna [e]let out a soft gasp as Roland finally touched her. While she lay on her back, Roland rolled up the hem of Ivanna’s dress further, sliding down from the bed to kneel between her legs. He looked up at her again, his eyes asking for permission to continue. Ivanna swallowed hard as she nodded. Roland removed her undergarments, and a breathy gasp escaped her as Roland used his mouth on her. His tongue was careful and loving, and Ivanna arched slightly as her toes curled, clutching at her breasts as she stared at the ceiling with glazed eyes. The sunlight from the window made patterns above her, dancing and flickering.
        The warmth was gradually spreading through her entire body, leaving her warm and tingly. Her head felt fuzzy. It was like she had grown wings. Another gasp escaped her as the warmth continued to grow. She was ever so sensitive now, but the sensation was still as gentle and addictive as before. Her hair spilled over the sheets as her fingers clenched and relaxed and then clenched again. She had never felt this good before, and Ivanna was gasping softly, giving herself and her control completely to Roland as she twitched uncontrollably at the overwhelming warmth. Not only could she feel her body reacting, but she could also feel it in her heart. The way Roland was attentive of her every shake and twitch, taking his time to make sure she never felt uncomfortable and only felt good . . .
        Even after she had finished, Ivanna lay there, still shaking from her sensitivity as her chest rose and fell with each breath. She still felt warm even after Roland’s lips had left her. After fixing her skirts, Roland had returned to sit next to her, running a loving hand through her hair as Ivanna held his free hand tightly.
        “Did you like that?” Roland asked.
        Ivanna nodded rapidly. “I—How did you know what to do?”
        Roland let out a soft laugh at that. “I have experience, remember? I’ve figured out over the years what people like.”
        Ivanna dropped her gaze to look at their hands and how their fingers were still laced together on the sheets. Even though she was still warm herself, she could tell Roland felt warmer than usual. “You did all of that for me . . . what should I try and do for you?”
        “Just relax. You don’t have to do anything for me. I’m quite easy to please, and so I really pride myself on my ability to please others.” Then he smiled wryly. “Though, do I have your permission to think about you later?”
        Ivanna’s face heated. “I—isn’t that an odd thing to ask?”
        Roland’s eyes sparkled. “Is that a no, then?”
        Ivanna averted her gaze. “No, well, I mean, it’s okay with me if you want to.” When her breathing had finally returned to normal, Ivanna looked up at Roland again. “Maybe the crown prince was right when he said that I’m here to entertain you during the day.”
        Roland let out a laugh at that. “Is that so? It seems more like I’m the one entertaining you.” Then his gaze softened. “I’m happy, though. I’ll admit I’ve been wanting to do that for you for a while.”
        Ivanna felt her face heat again.


~


        At the next ball, Ivanna watched Roland from across the room, silently wondering who he would leave with tonight. He was talking to a young noblewoman with long black hair, and Ivanna sighed as she finally looked away.
        Just then, Ivanna felt a hand on her shoulder, and she turned. Her face drained of color as she found herself face-to-face with Prince Asher.
        “Your favorite prince has left with someone else,” he said. A smile flickered across his face. “How about you come with me?”
        Trying not to panic, Ivanna looked around the ballroom, but Roland had indeed vanished. Taking a breath, she turned back to Prince Asher. “I’m sorry, Your Highness. But I need to help clean up.” Ivanna made to hurry away, but Asher caught her arm. Ivanna’s skin crawled at his touch. She tried to shake off his hand, but Asher’s grip was firm.
        In her desperation, Ivanna’s tray slipped from her hands. Glass shattered over the floor, and she jumped. Gasps sounded from the crowd as heads turned. They had an audience now.
        “Come with me,” Asher said, still smiling. “I’ll take you to see a physician to make sure you didn’t hurt yourself.”
        “I’m fine,” Ivanna said quickly. “I don’t want to trouble Your Highness with something so trivial.”
        Asher’s smile faded this time. “Come with me.”
        Ivanna’s heart pounded as she shook her head. “No.”
        Asher was staring at her now. “What was that?”
        “No,” Ivanna said, a little louder this time. “I don’t want to trouble Your Highness. I’ll take my leave.”
        Taking advantage of how Asher was still in a state of shock, Ivanna took the opportunity to hurry from the ballroom. Once she was far enough away, she let out a breath, leaning against the stone wall for support. She had saved herself, but in doing so had rejected a prince. And the consequences terrified her.
        Just then, Ivanna felt a hand on her shoulder. She almost screamed as she relapsed into panic, but this time when she turned, it was Roland.
        “Ivanna, it’s me,” Roland whispered.
        Ivanna threw her arms around him, hugging him tightly as she shook. “What’s going to happen to me?” Ivanna asked. Her voice shook just as much as her body. “I said ‘no’ to a prince.”
        “Let’s go back to my chambers,” Roland said worriedly. “You shouldn’t stay out here in the open.”
        Ivanna nodded and let Roland lead her up the stone staircase after staircase. Back in Roland’s room, Ivanna collapsed [f]to the floor the moment Roland shut the door behind them as her legs finally gave out.
        Roland dropped to his knees beside her, concerned. “Ivanna!”
        Hopelessly, Ivanna raised her head to look up at Roland’s face. Through the frightened tears that blurred her vision, the prince reminded her a little bit of Asher. Ivanna quickly blinked away her tears, wiping her face with the back of her hands. This time, Roland came into focus.
        “I don’t think I’ve ever told you in detail what Prince Asher did to me,” Ivanna said quietly. “I think it’s time I told you everything.”
        Roland sat next to Ivanna on the floor, listening as she recounted everything that haunted her to this day. When she was done, Roland’s face had drained of color. Instead of speaking, he pulled Ivanna into a hug. Ivanna held him back, blinking away tears again as she relished his warmth.
        “Stay here for the next few days,” Roland finally said. “Don’t let Asher find you.”
        “I’m scared,” Ivanna whispered. “I’m scared he’ll find me and that this time he’ll kill me. If I die, I want to die as a person, not a plaything. I want to die with dignity.”
        Roland pulled back to look at Ivanna’s face. “You’re not going to die. I won’t let him hurt you again.”
        Ivanna leaned against Roland’s shoulder, drawing in a shaky breath. “I thought you had left with that noblewoman.”
        Roland put a gentle hand on Ivanna’s head. “The one I was talking with? We were only talking. I never left.”
        “I’m tired,” Ivanna said breathily.
        Roland carefully lifted Ivanna into his arms and stood up. From his embrace, Ivanna glanced in the direction of her alcove. The night had turned the window into a mirror. She could see both of them reflected back at her.
        “Would you like to share the bed tonight?” Roland asked softly. “The window is cold.”
        Ivanna nodded silently.
        Roland carried Ivanna over to the bed and set her down. After kneeling down to help slide off her shoes, he pulled the covers over her.
        There was a quiet shuffling as Roland climbed onto the other side of the bed. The two of them lay next to each other in silence for a while before Ivanna spoke up. “Why do you do it?” she finally asked.
        “Do what?”
        “Sleep around the way you do. I asked before, but that time, you were still hungover. I’m not judging you. I just want to better understand why.”
        Roland turned so he could look at Ivanna through the low light. Ivanna searched his face as he answered, “Because my world is small. For a brief moment, I can let them in, and for a brief moment, it doesn’t feel so lonely anymore. Because I can’t be with the one I actually love. Because the closer I became to her, the more she would be put in danger.” Ivanna’s heart beat a little faster as Roland continued, “Yes, I’m a little insecure. And yes, I’ll admit that she was a big cause of my insecurities. But it was because of her that I wanted to become better. Even though I’m known by all as a useless prince, it’s true that I’m the most popular of my brothers in a sense. But even when I let people into my small world, I never let any of them near your alcove.”
        Ivanna dropped her gaze. “I really matter that much in your eyes?”
        “Yes,” Roland said. “Within these castle walls, I’m not allowed to wish for much. Within these walls, nothing is within my control. I can’t physically wish for anything else except for your happiness. Your happiness and safety are all I wish for. But I’m scared that even that is out of my control. In reality, I’m just a prince who’s scared of everything. I’m scared of losing you, and I’m scared of withering away within these cold walls.”
        Ivanna shifted closer to pull Roland into a warm embrace. “I’m scared, too. But if it wasn’t for you, I’m afraid I wouldn’t have even survived to today.”
        Roland drew in a shaky breath as he held Ivanna tightly. And for a while, the two of them just lay in each other’s arms, the only sound their occasional rustling of blankets and their quiet heartbeats.


~


        When Ivanna woke in the morning, she was the only one in the bed. Her long hair spilled over her shoulders as she slowly sat up and blinked the sleep from her eyes. The room was illuminated by the morning sunlight, and Ivanna’s gaze lingered on where Roland was sitting behind his desk with a book in hand.
        He smiled and set the book down when he noticed her watching him. “Good morning.”
        “Good morning,” Ivanna said softly.
        “What would you like to eat?” Roland asked. He gestured to a tray of fruits and pastries on the desk. “I had Mr. Becker deliver this not long ago.” Roland rose to his feet, bringing the tray over and setting it down on the bed next to Ivanna so she could get a better look.
        “I’ll take a biscuit.”
        Roland lifted the plate and held it out to her.
        Ivanna’s hand brushed Roland’s, lingering a little longer than necessary as she accepted it. “Has there been any word from Prince Asher?” she asked after taking a bite.
        Roland shook his head. “All’s been quiet.”
        Ivanna dipped her head, not sure whether this was good or bad news. Even after Roland left for his daily lessons, Ivanna lingered in his chambers. She busied herself with dusting every surface until not even a single speck remained. When she reached Roland’s desk, she paused as she looked down at the book he had been reading. Quietly, Ivanna set her feather duster down to pick up the thick volume. She flipped through the worn pages. It was a romance novel. A smile flickered across her face.
        Ivanna spent the next few days hiding out in Roland’s chambers. When everything continued to proceed as normal, she began to relax again. Maybe she had gotten worked up about nothing. She was just a maid, after all. For all she knew, Prince Asher could have forgotten about her already.
        Ivanna was debating whether she should show herself again when the door opened, and Roland stepped inside. Ivanna smiled when he appeared, but her smile faltered at the worried look on his face.
        “What is it?” Ivanna asked as she hurried over to him.
        Roland just quickly shut the door behind him. “You need to hide,” he said seriously. “Long story short, you’ve been accused of being a witch.”
        Ivanna’s face fell. “A witch?” she echoed faintly.
        Roland just looked around the room before gesturing to the bed. “You need to hide. The guards are searching the castle for you. I saw them on the floor below us. They’ll be here in minutes.”
        Roland hurried over to the bed, pushing with all his might. Ivanna dashed over to help him, and the bed slowly shifted. Roland knelt down to roll back the carpet, and Ivanna blinked as the prince pushed open a panel in the floor next. “A trap door?”
        “It’s less of a trap door and more of a storage space,” Roland admitted as he held it open. “It’s always been here, but I’ve never used it. It’s going to be a little cramped, but this is the only place they won’t be able to find you.”
        Ivanna’s pulse quickened as she looked at the dark stones under the floorboards.
        Roland offered her a strained smile. “Don’t worry, there shouldn’t be rats.”
        Ivanna took a deep breath before stepping into the stone space and curling up. “Don’t worry, I’m not afraid of rats.” The space was barely big enough for her, even with her knees tucked to her chest, and Ivanna held her breath as Roland closed the panel, sending the world into darkness. There was a scuffling from above as Roland rolled the carpet back over the floor before finally pushing the bed back into place. The stone beneath the floorboards smelled of dust and damp, but at least Roland was right about there not being any rats.
        Ivanna hadn’t been lying there for long before there was a muffled sound of someone knocking on the door. “Prince Roland, we have been ordered to conduct a thorough search for the accused witch. Forgive our intrusion.”
        Ivanna held her breath as heavy footsteps made their way through the room. There was a sound of furniture being moved and closet doors opening and closing. After one of the most stressful waits in her life, at long last, the guards seemed to decide Ivanna wasn’t in Roland’s room, and the footsteps died out as they left.
        Ivanna waited in the dark, and a few moments later, there was a shuffling and scraping over the floor. Then light was spilling in, and Ivanna looked up to see Roland offering her a hand. She shakily took it and let him help her out of the hiding space.
        Once the bed had been returned to its original position, Ivanna took a seat on the edge of it, shaken. “What happened?” she whispered. “Why am I suddenly being accused of being a witch?”
        Roland sat down next to her. “I’ve been told it was reported that an object related to witchcraft was found on your bedspace in the maid’s quarters. It was a doll cursing the queen.”
        Ivanna’s face paled. “But I didn’t put anything there. And why would I want to curse the queen? I’ve never even interacted with the queen. I have nothing against her.”
        “I know,” Roland said with a sigh. “You’re being framed. I’m afraid I know who’s behind it, too.”
        Ivanna felt a pit in her stomach open. “Prince Asher.”
        Roland turned to hold Ivanna’s gaze. “Ivanna, you can’t stay here. You need to leave the castle before they find you.”
        Ivanna took a deep breath to steady herself. Quietly, she took Roland’s hands in hers. “Will you come with me?”
        Roland’s answer was immediate. “Yes.”
        “When do we leave?”
        “Tonight.”


~


        Roland sat on a stool in the washroom, and Ivanna stood behind him with a pair of scissors in hand. Roland turned to look at her, offering her a smile. “Go ahead.”
        “Are you sure?” Ivanna asked hesitantly. “Is it necessary to go this far?”
        “The red hair of the royal family is far too recognizable. It has to be the first thing to go.”
        The sun was setting now, and the light slowly faded behind the stained glass windows. “Alright,” Ivanna said softly. She reached forward, but hesitated again, unsure where to start. Finally centering herself, Ivanna took the first strand of Roland’s curly hair between her fingers. Snip.
        Before long, the floor around them was covered in clippings. The red strands glowed gold in the dying light, and the light had faded completely by the time Ivanna set down the razor in her hand. “It’s done.”
        Roland turned around to look at Ivanna. He looked different without his hair. But his eyes were the same as they had always been.
        After draping a dark cloak over Ivanna’s shoulders, Roland fastened a similar one over his own body. Ivanna watched silently as Roland opened his closet and took out a box. She recognized it as his collection of rings.
        “This should be small enough to bring with us and support us until we figure out how to support ourselves,” Roland explained. As Ivanna watched him tuck the box away, the realization that they were really doing this seemed to sink in. What their futures would hold depended on this night. Either they escaped together or fell together.
        Roland was looking through the closet again, and Ivanna’s feet seemed to move on their own as she walked forward, wrapping her arms around him from behind.


~


        Hand in hand, Ivanna let Roland lead her down the silent stone corridors. Outside the rare window, the sky glittered faintly with stars.
        Having lived within the castle walls for so many years, both of them were very familiar with the rotation and patrol of the guards, and steering clear of them proved easier than Ivanna had expected.
        Soon, they made it to the castle gates. The guards were standing by on the other side with their backs to them. Ivanna’s heart raced as she looked around through the night. There was no way the guards wouldn’t spot them.
        Taking Ivanna’s other hand, Roland turned to face her. Ivanna looked up at him. She could see something sad behind his eyes. “If I draw the attention of the guards, it might be enough to let you escape.”
        Ivanna shook her head. “We said that if we leave, we’d leave together!”
        “I think I might have gotten a little ahead of myself,” Roland whispered, trying and failing to smile. “If they catch me, at worst, I have to stay locked up in the castle for the rest of my life. But if they catch you . . .”
        Ivanna wrapped her arms around him, still shaking her head.
        Suddenly, a lantern flickered to life, and the two of them froze.
        “Who goes there?” a voice asked.
        Ice flooded Ivanna’s veins as she slowly turned toward the light. She seemed to recognize the man the same moment Roland did. Roland lifted a hand to lower his hood. “Good evening, Mr. Becker.”
        Mr. Becker blinked in surprise. “Your Highness? What are you doing all the way out here? And what happened to your hair?”
        “We’re escaping,” Roland said simply. He put a gentle arm around Ivanna’s shoulder, and Ivanna didn’t realize how much she was shaking as she leaned against his side for support.
        Mr. Becker looked at them for a long moment before letting out a sigh. “The two of you think you can escape like this? Silly children. Follow me.”
        Roland and Ivanna exchanged a glance as Mr. Becker hobbled toward the castle gates. When he reached the gate, he presented his token, and the guards beckoned him through. Hoods pulled over their heads, Ivanna and Roland followed at his heels, their footsteps muffled on the dirt path. They walked in silence until they had reached the beginning of the main road.
        There was a look of disbelief on Roland’s face as he turned to Mr. Becker. “Mr. Becker . . . you didn’t need to do that. If they had stopped to check us, you would have lost your life. How can I ever repay you?”
        Mr. Becker just leaned against his cane. “I’ve watched you grow up over the years, Your Highness. I’m all too aware of everything that goes on in the castle. I’ve seen the relationship between the two of you evolve into what it has become today. I wish for both of you to be happy and free. You were never a useless prince, Your Highness. You were just never meant to be confined behind those stone walls. Now go far, as far as the wind can take you, and never come back.”
        “Thank you,” Ivanna whispered. She dropped into a deep curtsy, and Roland bowed. Once Ivanna straightened, she turned to smile up at Roland. He smiled back, and Ivanna let out a laugh of joy. They had made it out.


~


        The journey to the edge of the kingdom was one of the hardest ventures of Ivanna’s life. Roland had pawned his box of rings for a bag of coins, which so far had been able to cover all of their expenses.
        Sometimes, as they sat quietly at night at a small inn, Ivanna would find herself ecstatic, wondering to herself if this was real or if she was dreaming. Other nights, she would burst into tears from the hardships of their journey.
        Today, her feet were covered in blisters from walking. She sat on the bed in the small room, and Roland appeared a few minutes later with a basin of water in hand. This he set on the floor in front of Ivanna before kneeling down to reach for her shoe.
        Ivanna let him help her remove the shoe, but when he started on her sock, Ivanna moved her foot away. She averted her gaze as Roland looked up at her, his eyes asking a silent question. “Don’t look, Your Highness,” Ivanna said softly. “My feet are ruined.”
        Roland offered her a faint smile. “You need to take care of your feet, Ivanna. If you don’t take care of them now, who knows if they’ll really be ruined then. Besides, I’m just Roland now, remember? We’ve left the castle and our old identities far behind.”
        Slowly, Ivanna moved her foot back into Roland’s reach, letting him roll off her socks. Her fingers tightened slightly on the edge of the bed as Roland lowered her feet into the basin of hot water. The warmth eased the ache. She sat quietly as Roland helped splash the water over her ankles.
        When Roland was done, he stood up, but Ivanna leaned forward to catch the edge of his sleeve. Roland looked at her with questioning eyes. Ivanna just tugged on his sleeve, shifting over to make room for him next to her on the bed.
        Roland smiled as he took a seat.
        “You should put your feet in, too,” Ivanna said.
        Soon, the two of them were sharing the basin of water. Ivanna giggled as Roland’s feet brushed hers, and Roland let out a laugh. Finally, Ivanna leaned against his side, watching the patch of moonlight spilling in through the small inn window. Sitting there, she found she wasn’t that afraid anymore.


~


        When they arrived at the farming town at the edge of the kingdom, the adjustment to the long hours of physical labor was rough. Neither of them had any prior knowledge of farming. When the villagers asked, Ivanna explained that she and her husband had fled a disaster with nothing and were starting anew. She and Roland had agreed upon arriving that it would be better for them to pretend to be a married couple. While it was unlikely the villagers had heard any of the news, along the way, they had overheard the whispers of how a prince from the castle and his maid had vanished, rumored to have fled together.
        As the weeks turned into months, one evening after a long day of work, Ivanna sat on the edge of the bed in their small house. Her feet still ached, but she had gotten used to the blisters. She let out a breath as she looked out the window at the sun setting over the fields of wheat and corn.
        There was a light knock on the doorframe, and Ivanna looked up to see Roland standing in the doorway. He was smiling faintly, half his face and red hair glowing in the fading sunlight.
        Ivanna rose to her feet. “Roland.”
        Roland smiled. “Ivanna.”
        Ivanna let out a laugh. “Roland.”
        Roland walked forward, closing the distance between them. He wrapped his arms around Ivanna, and Ivanna melted into his embrace.
        Ivanna finally pulled away, rising onto her tiptoes to press a light kiss to Roland’s lips. She giggled as he leaned forward to kiss her forehead. He kissed her nose next, and Ivanna flushed.
        Rising onto her toes again, Ivanna draped her arms over his shoulders as their lips met. Ivanna was lost in the kiss, and when they finally parted, her breathing came quickly. Taking a step back, Ivanna sat down on the bed. Roland moved with her. His lips trailed from her lips to her cheek to her neck to her collarbone.
        Ivanna arched slightly, warmth spreading through her skin from where his lips touched, and her fingers curled in the blankets.
        Roland gently laid Ivanna down, and she raised her arms to help him pull her dress over her head. Ivanna shivered in pleasure and anticipation as Roland showered her in kisses. This time, she didn’t feel used; she felt loved.


~


        Half a year had gone by now, and Ivanna was finally getting into the flow of her new life. It was early morning, and Ivanna was on her way to the bakery with a bucket of milk in each hand. Her fingers were sweaty under her thick gloves, and by the time she reached the bakery, she had to wipe the beads of sweat from her forehead as well.
        While the fields were still shrouded with lazy morning fog, the bakery was bright, warm, and bustling. Ivanna set her milk buckets down, and an older woman quickly hurried over to collect them. “The milkmaid is here!” she called over her shoulder. “Quick, bring her a fresh loaf.”
        Ivanna brushed her braid over her shoulder and straightened her headscarf as she smiled gratefully.
        “How’s your husband?” the woman asked as Ivanna helped her carry the buckets further into the bakery. “We’re so lucky to have the two of you here. Teaching the village children to read and write is no easy task.”
        Ivanna smiled. “Even after a long day of working in the fields, he’ll sit down at the table to spend time seriously reading over and correcting their homework.”
        The woman grinned as she held out a basket with a fresh loaf of bread for Ivanna. “The whole village is still talking about the other day when you helped deliver the baby calf. How’s it doing now?”
        “It’s strong and healthy,” Ivanna answered with a giggle. When she wasn’t working in the fields with the other villagers, Ivanna was tending to the cows. She found herself to have an affinity with the gentle creatures, and she had surprised herself when she offered to be the one to help supervise the mother delivering her young.
        “I heard you named it ‘Biscuit.’”
        “A silly name for a cow, isn’t it? I like it, though.”
        After waving to the bakery workers, Ivanna started back down the dirt path with a spring in her step. The morning wind was light against her face, and soon, she was opening the door to her home.
        Roland was waiting for her and took the basket of bread while Ivanna went to wash up. Before long, they were sitting together at the table with their breakfast.
        “The woman at the bakery asked me about my husband today,” Ivanna said after taking a bite of her slice of bread. “We’re still pretending, aren’t we?”
        Roland paused for a moment. “I know we’ve been pretending, but for a while now, it’s felt real to me.”
        Ivanna turned to smile at him. “It’s felt real to me, too. I want it to be real.”
        Roland’s face relaxed into a smile as he took one of Ivanna’s hands in his own. Ivanna blinked as he pressed something rounded into the palm of her hand. Ivanna examined the simple metal band. “A ring?”
        Roland nodded. “I spent a while saving up for this one. I thought it was fitting. I left the old rings behind, so I wanted to give you one that actually meant something. I’ve been carrying it with me for a while now, trying to muster the courage to ask you if you would be my wife for real.”
        Ivanna slipped the ring onto her finger before wrapping her arms around Roland. “I love it,” she breathed.
Outside, the morning fog was beginning to lift from the fields, and Ivanna knew that the life they had built together was finally their own.
[a]⭐ What Is The Core Story?


I think the story is actually about this:


👉 Two damaged people finding safety in each other
👉 Learning that love is not domination
👉 Escaping systems that treat them as objects


Roland’s arc is especially interesting.


He starts as:


Sexually confident


Socially careless


Emotionally lonely


Low political ambition


But underneath, he is actually:


Protective


Gentle with Ivanna’s trauma


That is good characterization.


🌫 The Biggest Strength of This Draft


The best scene is actually this one:


Ivanna confesses love while drunk → Roland refuses sex → chooses chess instead


This is VERY strong writing because:


It rejects sexual pressure


Shows consent ethics


Shows emotional intimacy > physical urgency


Shows Roland is not the stereotype he appears to be


Do not remove this thematic direction.


It is your story’s moral center.
[b]⚠️ One Thing You Should Fix (Important)


The early sexual description is very explicit.


That is fine if the story intends to be adult.


But later plot ideas (witch accusation, escape, rural life) feel more fairy-tale / tragic romance.


Right now the tone is slightly inconsistent.


You should decide:


👉 Court tragedy romance
OR
👉 Adult intimate character drama
OR
👉 Political fantasy with romance


I suspect you are leaning toward tragic court romance → quiet life ending.


If so, I will help you build that.
[c]4. Ivanna as a Character


Ivanna has a good emotional conflict, but she could become even stronger.


Her key elements:


trauma from Prince Asher


love for Roland


believes she cannot satisfy him


therefore refuses him


That’s a very believable trauma response.


One thing I would slightly strengthen:


Right now we tell the backstory quickly.


Example:


Ivanna had been left traumatized from the event and unable to speak for weeks.


Instead, you could add a short flash of sensory memory.


Example:


remembering the choking


remembering not being able to breathe


remembering the ceiling


Even 1–2 lines would make the trauma feel more real.
[d]The Best Way to Write Their First Consensual Intimacy


Do NOT write a dramatic “we are finally lovers” declaration.


Write it quietly.


I strongly suggest a scene like this:


They are living in the farming town.


It is night.


Roland is reading.


Ivanna is sitting near the window.


She walks over.


Not drunk.


Not crying.


Not afraid.


Just calm.


She touches his hand first.


Then she says something like:


“I think I’m ready.”


Roland should not rush.


He should ask a simple question:


“Are you sure?”


And when she nods:


Only then intimacy happens.


🌾 Physical Intimacy Description Style (Very Important)


Since your story has tragic and gentle tone, write intimacy like this:


Soft


Slow


Respectful


Focused on emotion, not anatomy


Example thematic focus:


Breathing


Warmth


Touch as safety


Silence that feels comfortable


Avoid aggressive or dominant imagery.


This matches your story’s healing theme.


💡 Roland’s Personality During This Scene


Roland should be:


Gentle
Patient
Emotionally aware
Not performative
Not sexually pressuring


He is not a heroic prince in battle.


He is a man who protects quiet happiness.


🌻 After Intimacy (This Part Matters A Lot)


Do NOT end the story immediately after sex.


Instead show:


They fall asleep.


Morning sunlight enters.


Ivanna wakes first.


She stays lying next to Roland and watches him sleep.


That is a very strong literary ending.
[e]Ivanna feels like she should do something for Roland, Roland asks if he can have her permission to think about her. Ivanna says isn't that a weird thing to ask, but agrees. Gentle, warm, and addictive
[f]One small structural suggestion


The confession scene might benefit from slightly slowing down one moment.


Right now the sequence is:


Ivanna collapses


They hug


She immediately tells the entire trauma story


You might consider inserting one short pause, like:


Roland bringing her water


Ivanna hesitating before speaking


Roland asking what happened


Just a few lines can make the confession feel even more natural.


Example structure:


collapse → comfort → hesitation → confession.